---
title: "CLC-DB: an online open-source database of chiral ligands and catalysts"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-07-12
excerpt: 'A large-scaled pre-trained language model achieves SOTA performance on RNA donwstream tasks.'
date: 2024-07-08
venue: 'ChemRxiv'
slidesurl: 'https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/6694cc95c9c6a5c07a52dfd9'
paperurl: 'https://chemrxiv.org/engage/chemrxiv/article-details/6694cc95c9c6a5c07a52dfd9'
citation: 'Yu G, Yu K, Wang X, Huo X, Yang Y. CLC-DB: an open-source online database of chiral ligands and catalysts. ChemRxiv. 2024;'
---

As an important research area in organic chemistry, asymmetric catalysis has contributed greatly to the development of chemistry and other fields, and chiral ligands/catalysts are the core research content of it. However, traditional experimental methods still have some limitations, and machine learning (ML)-based computational methods suffer from the lack of sufficient and accurate data resources about chiral ligands/catalysts. To overcome this challenge, we develop the Chiral Ligand and Catalyst Database (CLC-DB). To our best knowledge, CLC-DB is the first open-source and largest professional database for chiral ligands/catalysts, containing 1861 molecules of several basic chiral types that belong to 32 different chiral ligand/catalyst types. A total of 19 items of information are included for each data record, including the 2D and 3D chemical structure, ligand/catalyst category, chiral type, chemical and physical properties, artificial intelligence (AI) generated description, etc. Each molecular data is linked with authoritative chemical databases and validated by chemical experts. CLC-DB is a user-friendly database that supports two quick search methods and batch search. In addition, CLC-DB provides an efficient online molecular clustering tool for ML computational analyses. CLC-DB is accessible at https://compbio.sjtu.edu.cn/services/clc-db, and all the data can be downloaded for free.